Alright in this video we want to take a
look at adding a drop-down list to our
edit form for recipes for the difficulty. But first I want to show you a little
refactoring I did. Actually, on line 28 is  a mistake. You don't need that
there but on line 24, I'll bring up the old.
I was using GetMapping and Request
Mapping together and this is technically
not correct or not the most optimal. You
could use them together but the GetMapping drill into that. It is
essentially a helper method over RequestMapping. So it's kind of redundant to be
using both. It is an alias for RequestMapping but what it does is it sets in
the RequestMethod to GET. So we could
do the exact same thing using Request
Mapping and then specifying the RequestMethod. This is really just a helper
annotation so having both of them
there like that was really kind of
redundant. We don't need to use both of
them so I've refactored both controllers.
The IngredientController and RecipeController for that change. So we'll go
with that going forward. So technically
not the most optimal thing there. It was just
kind of my mistake doing it that way. I
should have shown you the other way from
the get-go but I'm kind of new to this
annotation as well. That's a recent
addition to the Spring Framework. I think it
was version 4.3 they introduced that
feature in. So sometimes I'm learning
stuff too as we go but here we want to
get into displaying a drop-down list
using our enum Difficulty. So remember
this pretty simple enumeration that we
have here. And I'm going to show you a
slightly different technique than what
we did with ingredients and this time we
are going to use Thymeleaf field for
Difficulty. And then on line 69 there we
are using an expression. This T is a type so within this
expression, it's saying give me a type of
Difficulty. So it gives the enum then
we're calling the method values on
which is going to give us a list array
at the values. And then that's going to get passed back
into the variable difficultyValue and
we are going to say to just get the name
of that. Now if we wanted to have a more
pleasant text name on that we could
refactor our enum to have a more better
displayed text value because what's
going to happen now, is that we'll get
just all the uppercase values. So if we
want to do something different there, we
could refactor this and give it a String
property that we could display on the
web page. But you can do that for extra
credit if you would like but in here we
are going to iterate over that and come
up with this. And I am doing this slightly
different than I did before in the
ingredients with that dropped down
because we didn't have a good equals
implement, equals method implemented on
unit of measure. But here we do it so we
can rely upon that and what's important
here is Thymeleaf is going to use the
equals operator. So when that field is
equal to the object, it will set that as
the default. So we will see that in
action now. So I'm going to go ahead and
start up Spring Boot and we'll take a
look at what this tag is now
rendering for HTML. Look I accidentally
ran the test. I apologize. So now we'll
start up Spring Boot. Grab the wrong
option off the drop-down there. So we are
now up on 8080 and I'm going to toggle
over to Chrome, refresh here, we'll see
our application come up. Now I am going
to come in to update and we can see that
this has been persisted. So I'm going to
change this to hard and submit it and I
just got an error, method not allowed. Class methods get not supported. Let's
back up and take a look at that.
So view the page source here and I think
it's because I don't have a form action.
So it's going against recipe but it
should be a post. So let's change that
real quick. Just a simple update here, we
need to say method and post. It was I
think defaulting to get and when I
removed that annotation, it was
preventing the get method from getting
there as well.
So let's go ahead and and build this
just in case, make sure that gets updated
and come back over here and let's do a
refresh on that. Make sure that we are in
fact getting a post. View page source
here. Now we can see that in fact on line 23
there we are getting a method to post. So
let's go ahead and try this again and
we'll change it to kind of hard and
we'll submit it. Now we can see that it
is updated and what what we're talking
about in the equals method earlier, I
want to show you the page source on this. Where's that drop down? Oh, my bad. So let's
go in back here and edit it. So I get
to this form here, the edit form and now
we'll come in and take a look at page
source. And here's our drop-down list and
the equals method, it gets selected,
getting that set selected which is
going to control which of these gets
displayed on default. So that's going
to be defaulted to selected. So if I
come back here and change it to easy and
submit the update and let's close this and
come back over.
And refresh that to view page source. Now
we can see that easy has been selected and that's
because in our Thymeleaf template, when
we're using this form command here,
I'm sorry the field command,
when the property, when the value is
equal that's going to set. I'm going to toggle over
here. It's going to set that selected
equals to selected which will cause the
web browser to position on that element
of the drop-down. So just recap the
changes that we did there. Come back over
here to IntelliJ and we added in this option value here. This is what we
had in the previous source here, 77 to 79
and I did add and the Thymeleaf command to
remove that drop down. So this will
preserve the natural templating but
here, this block of code up here is what
we added for this section. So we take in
the Thymeleaf field of difficulty which is
going to be out the form object and then
we get a whole of the enumeration of
difficulty and grab the values. That
gives us an array to iterate over and
because we're using the Thymeleaf field
value when that enum is equals it will
also have the selected property set to
true or in this case, selected which
will preposition the drop down on that.
So that concludes this section. Dropdowns
can be a little tricky to work with
sometimes. So that's why I want to this
into a little more detail.